Hi guys, my name is Nitesh, and welcome  to my YouTube channel. In this video,  we'll explore a very interesting topic  called corrective rags, or C-rags. A  C-rag is a variant of a rag. In this  video, I'll not only explain  conceptually what a C-rag is, but at  the same time, I'll also show you how  to create a C-rag in a long graph. So,  overall, it's going to be a very  interesting video. Please make sure you  watch it from end to end. Now, let's  start the video. The most obvious  question that might be coming to your  mind as we start the video is: If a rag  works so well, why do we need a C-rag?  So, let me do one thing. First, let's  satisfy this question, this curiosity.  Okay? And for that, you should first  understand what a rag as a concept is.  And how does Rag work? You should know  both of these things. I've covered both  of these in the past in my Lang Chain  playlist. Please make sure you watch  those videos. Then you'll be able to  appreciate this video more. So, let's  discuss the problems in conventional  Rag, or traditional Rag, that C-Rag  solves. Okay? So, here you'll see a  diagram, and those who have read Rag  will immediately recognize that this is  Rag's workflow. So, what I'll do is, in  the next two or three minutes, I'll  give you a quick overview of Rag's  workflow, and then, within that, I'll  explain why C-Rag is needed. Okay? So,  what happens? In a traditional Rag  workflow, a user gives you a query.  Let's ask what machine learning is. Now , the first thing you do is take that  query and pass it to an embedding model . Now, what is an embedding model? It's  a deep learning model whose job is to  convert text into numbers as vectors.  So, what does an embedding model do?  Against our query, it will generate a  vector. What do we do now? We take this  vector to a vector database. So, in a  workflow, there's a vector database. We  use vector databases because they're  where we store our private documents in  vector format. Now, let's take an  example: we've stored some machine  learning books. This vector database  currently contains many vectors that  explain machine learning concepts. What  do we do now? We'll take our query  vector and perform a semantic search on  this vector database. Basically, we'll  try to extract the vectors closest to  our query vector within the vector  database. This particular step is  called retrieval. At the end of  retrieval, we find some documents  stored in a vector database. These  documents contain exactly what our  query asked. So, if our query is "What  is machine learning?", these documents  will have some context around what is  machine learning. Now, what we do in  the next step is take these retrieved  documents and our original query and  send both of them to LLM with a prompt.  We call this step argumentation. We're  sending some additional documents along  with our existing user query, and we're  telling LLM that the user asked this  question, and use these documents to  answer it. Right? Now, what the LLM  does is look at the question, look at  the documents, and generate the answer  from within these documents. We call  this step generation. So, RAG is  basically a combination of three steps:  retrieval, augmentation, and generation . I really hope you already know this.  Now let's discuss the problem with this  traditional workflow. What's the  problem that necessitated C-Rack? The  problem is quite simple. The problem is  that when we give these retrieved  documents to our LLM and tell them to  answer from within these documents, at  this point, your LLM blindly trusts  these retrieved documents. And the  problem with blind trust is that if the  documents we provide aren't relevant to  the query, the resulting answer will be  incorrect. Let me give you an example.  Suppose we ask the question, "What is  an LLM?" and all the books in our  vector database are on machine learning . Obviously, you won't find LLM  concepts there. But when you  semantically search your query vector  within a vector database, the vector  database, since it has to provide some  answer, will still find some remote  topic. For example, if you ask, "What  is an LLM?" and you only have machine  learning-related topics, it might not  find anything, but might instead give  you documents on random forests or  XGBoost, because it had to provide some  documents. Now the problem is, your  question is, "What is an LLM?" And what  documents did you send? Random Forest.  You tell your LLM, "Look, this is the  query. What is an LLM?" And you have  documents for a Random Forest. Answer  it. Now, your LLM is forced to generate  an answer from the wrong document. And  ultimately, what will it do? Print the  wrong answer and give it to the user.  Now, imagine this in a business  scenario. This could create a huge  problem in a business scenario. Imagine  you have an employee asking about the  leave policy in a particular situation,  and that document doesn't even exist in  your Vector database. So, what happens  at this point is that you give him the  wrong answer, and he assumes the wrong  answer is correct and proceeds with his  next steps. The implications of this  can be very dangerous. Who comes up  with the solution to this problem?  Corrective Rag. I'll explain how  Corrective Rag solves this problem a  little later. First, what I'll do is  actually give you a practical  demonstration of how this problem I  just described could occur. So, I'll  give you a code walk-through where I'll  show you that I've asked one question,  but my retrieved documents are  different, which is why the answer I'm  getting is wrong. Now, before showing  you the code, let me show you the setup . So, what I've done is, I have this  folder. And in this folder, there are  currently three machine learning and  deep learning-related books. So, this  is the first one, Hands on Machine  Learning. The second is Deep Learning,  and the third is this book on pattern  recognition. All three are absolute  classics. So what I'm trying to do is  build a Rag chartbot using these three  books. Okay? So, let me show you the  code for that. So, let's do a code  walkthrough. I'm doing this code  walkthrough because we'll build the  correct Rag code using this code. So,  please don't skip this. Even if you  already know the concept of Rag, you  already know how to code Rag. But  please, spend five minutes following  this. So, here we imported the  libraries. Then what did we do? Loaded  our documents. You can see, we have  three books. So, we're loading all  three books as document objects and  combining them into this list called  docs. So, at this point, I have almost  2,000 document objects. Okay? So,  that's the document loading. The next  step is text splitting. So we're using  a recursive character text splitter. We  set the chunk size to 900. We set the  chunk overlap to 150, and we split our  documents. Okay? There was a bit of an  encoding issue here. So this particular  line is there so that we can replace  any weird characters in some PDFs and  avoid any errors. Unicode errors. So,  after chunking, or text splitting, I  now have more than 6,000 documents.  Okay? Then comes the third step, where  what did we do? We imported OpenAI's  embedding model and used the Phys  database. Okay? And what did we do here ? We converted all your documents into  vectors and stored them in a vector  database. Okay? Then, what we did in  this step was create a retriever in  that vector database that would perform  a similarity search, a semantic search,  and retrieve the top four documents for  any given query. This retriever is  stored inside this retriever variable.  Okay? Now, the main work begins. We  invoked an LLM from ChatOpenAI. This  becomes the state of our language graph . We're storing three things in it:  first, the question the user asks,  second, the documents that will be  retrieved, and third, the answer that  the LLM will generate. Okay? Let me  first show you the structure of the  inference graph, which is going to be  our first node. This is the structure  of our graph. So, there's a retrieval  node. Then there's a generation node.  It's very simple. Okay? So, nothing is  happening in the retrieval node. You're  taking the query you're given and  invoking it in the retriever. This  gives you the documents. You're storing  those documents in the state inside  docs. Right? The generation step after  that is also very simple. At this point , after retrieval, you're taking all  the documents you have and joining them  as strings. What are you doing next?  You're sending those strings to an LLM  and telling your LLM to answer only  from the context. If not in the context , you don't know. Right? So I'm telling  it to trust the documents blindly. And  I'm giving my user's query and the  context. What is the context? All the  retrieved documents, and this is what  we're generating. Whatever answer is  generated, we're storing it in answer.  This is the flow. Okay? Here we've  built our graph. It's a very simple,  straightforward graph. This is our  graph. And here's the code to perform  our final test. So what I'm doing is  I'm sending this question: What is the  bias-variance trade-off? Now pay  attention. This is a question whose  answer will definitely be in all three  of our books. So I'll run it. Here's  our answer. The bias-variance trade-off  is a fundamental concept in statistics  and machine learning that describes the  relationship between two sources of  error that affect a model's performance : bias and variance. Then I define bias . I define variance. Then I explain  what a trade-off is. So, I've come up  with a very solid answer. Now, let me  show you the documents we retrieved.  You can see these are our retrieved  documents. So, we retrieved four  documents. Look, here too, we're  discussing bias and variance. Here too,  we're discussing bias and variance. And  if I show you the next two, you'll see  that there's also a bias and variance  tradeoff. This means that only  documents related to our query were  retrieved from the vector database. And  that's why the answer we got is also  accurate. But now, let me give you an  example of a query that, for sure,  won't be found in any of our books. For  example, suppose I asked a question  here: "What are the top AI news from  last month?" This is a query for which  there won't be an answer in any of our  books. Because these are all classic  books. Written a long time ago. So what  happened last month? The answer to this  isn't going to be in the books. So what  I'll do is run this query and see what  answer is printed. Look, he's saying I  don't know. Now, let me give you an  example of a query whose related  documents won't be in any of our three  books. For example, as far as I know,  the Transformer architecture hasn't  been discussed in detail in any of  these three books. In fact, it hasn't  been discussed at all. So, what we'll  do is we'll ask this query: what is a  Transformer? What is a Transformer in  deep learning? Okay? This is the query.  Let's run it once. A Transformer in  deep learning is a type of model  architecture that is particularly  effective for processing sequential  data, such as text. It utilizes  mechanisms called self-attention and  feedforward neural networks. Ah, and  it's better than traditional RNA.  Transformers do not process data  sequentially, which enables them to be  more parallelizable and efficient in  training. The architecture has become  foundational in natural language  processing tasks and has led to  significant advancements in the field.  Now, you might ask, "What's the problem ?" That's right. So, the problem is,  let me first show you the retrieved  documents. What are retrieved documents ? So, here are our retrieved documents.  Let's take a look. You'll notice that  the Transformer architecture isn't  discussed anywhere here. For example,  look, this is the first part. Now,  there's a problem here: the spaces have  been removed, so all the words have  been joined. But there's no problem.  The sentential search works fine.  You'll notice that MLP is mentioned  here, Multi-Layer Perception, but  Transformer isn't mentioned here.  Similarly, here, convolutional neural  networks are discussed. Then, if you  look here, regularization is discussed.  It's a little difficult to understand,  but it's clear that transformers aren't  mentioned here either. And finally,  here, Reinfo Deep Neural Network  Regularization—these are basically  pages from the index. So, you might  notice that transformer architecture  isn't mentioned anywhere in all four  documents. But still, our model gave us  an answer. Now, where did this answer  come from? This answer came from our  LLM's parametric knowledge. But the  thing is, in any other situation,  hallucinations could have occurred here  if the LLM didn't have parametric  knowledge about that thing. For example , the LLM didn't know about a company's  leaflet policy and couldn't retrieve  the correct documents. In that case,  the LLM could hallucinate anything. So,  this is the problem with traditional  racking: if it doesn't find the correct  documents, it turns to its parametric  knowledge and finds the answer, which  has a very high probability of  hallucinations. And if hallucinations  occur, it can be very, very bad in  business situations. Okay? So, this is  the problem I was talking about. I know , I took almost 10 minutes to explain  this, but I wanted to show you this  problem practically in racking systems.  Now, I'll show you how C-Rag solves  this problem. Okay? That will be our  next discussion. So, now that you  understand the problem with traditional  racking, let's talk about corrective  racking, or C-Rag, and see how C-Rag  solves this problem. So, one big  difference in CRag is that when we  receive retrieved documents after  retrieval, we don't send them directly  to LLM within CRag. Instead, what we do  is, in this step, we install a model in  this place, and we call this model a  retrieval evaluator. The simple task of  this model is to look at all the  documents and the query and decide  whether these retrieved documents are  useful or not for answering this query.  Right? So, if my query is "What is LLM? " and my documents are based on random  forest, then our model will understand  that these documents are not useful for  answering this query. Okay? So, there  are basically three cases. Either the  documents you retrieve are relevant or  they're not. And the third case is that  sometimes things get confusing. Meaning , the documents are partially correct,  and partially contain some garbage that  isn't. So, C-Rack performs its  functions according to these three  cases. So, if the documents are  relevant, then the rest of the work  will be like a normal rack. You send  the documents to LLM. LLM will review  them and provide an answer. If your  retrieved documents are not at all  relevant, then C-Rack takes a different  approach. What it does is turn to  external knowledge sources. For example , you may have added a web search tool  to your system. Since your retriever  couldn't find the correct documents,  you asked, what is LLM? The retriever  gives you a random forest. Your model  will then understand that the retrieved  documents are not relevant. So what  will it do? It will perform a web  search and give you the answer based on  what comes back from the web search.  Okay? This is the second case. The  third case is where some documents  partially explain the query, while  others fail to explain it. So here it  will do both things. Like a normal rack , it will send the relevant documents  to the LLM. Then, for the remaining  information, it will search the web and  retrieve the external knowledge from  the web. Then, it will merge these two  things and give it to the LLM. So, the  information that came from the  retriever and the information that came  from the web search is merged, and then  finally, the generation is performed  through the LLM. So, this is how CRag  works. I really hope I was able to  explain it to you. Okay? The basic  difference is that your C-Rag doesn't  assume that all retrieved documents are  correct. It doesn't blindly trust the  retrieved documents. It works by  creating three different cases. And who  helps it create these cases? The  retrieval evaluator, this particular  model. Okay? So what will we do? In  this video, we'll develop this  Corrective Rag from scratch using a  Lanagraph. Now, before we code, I want  to show you the original paper on  Corrective Rag. So, this is the  original paper on Corrective Rag. It's  a very recent paper. It probably came  out in 2024. And in this paper, you'll  see in great detail the architecture  used by the researchers. We'll try to  stay very close to this paper in this  video. The code I write, I'll try to be  a very close representation of the  architecture used by the authors.  Otherwise, I'd recommend you read this  paper. It's not a very difficult paper.  It's not a very long one either. And  I'd especially like you to take a look  at this particular diagram. This is the  diagram. In fact, we just discussed  this very thing. Look here, it's  written: first, a query with the word x  is entered into the system, and the  system retrieves documents d1 and d2.  Then, we have a retrieval evaluator.  And what does the retrieval evaluator  do? It looks at x, d1, and d2, and  tells us whether d1 and d2 are the  correct knowledge sources to answer x.  If so, you refine these documents a bit , and you get the internal knowledge  that you use to generate the answer. If  D1 and D2 are incorrect, meaning the  context within them doesn't match query  X, in that case you perform knowledge  searching. So, you send X to the web,  you do a web search, and from that you  get external knowledge, and you  generate your answer based on X and  external knowledge. And the third  situation is when your documents are  partially answering your question. In  that case, you do both things: you  refine the correct documents a little  to make the knowledge internal, and  then essentially you search the web for  the remaining information, which gives  you external knowledge. Then you send  the query, internal knowledge, and  external knowledge to LLM () to  generate the answer. This is just a bit  of a corrective architecture. Okay? Now , my goal in this video is to show you  this diagram you see on the screen, by  creating it in a Langraph. And the good  thing is that I won't directly show you  such a large architecture. Otherwise,  it might be a bit overwhelming. So,  what I'll do is add complexity step by  step to the traditional RAG, and in  three to five iterations, we'll reach  the corrective RAG. So basically, we'll  start with the traditional RAG. We'll  add one feature to it. Then add another  feature to it. And in this way, we'll  progress to the corrective RAG. So,  basically, we'll take a very  first-principles approach. Okay? So now  let's start the coding part. So, guys,  as we discussed, we'll take our  traditional RAG system and add features  to it step by step. So, the feature  we're going to add in iteration one is  the knowledge refinement feature.  Basically, we're going to implement  this entire C-RAG architecture within  our traditional RAG. Okay? So, first,  let me explain exactly how the  Knowledge Refinement feature works.  You've already seen that when our  retrieved documents are correct, we  perform knowledge refinement. You've  probably already seen this. Now, let me  explain step-by-step what happens  inside this feature. Okay? So, as you  can see, you've made a query "x," which  retrieved two documents. Now, what do  you do with these two documents?  Knowledge refinement. What's the whole  concept of knowledge refinement? The  documents that are retrieved may  contain relevant information. But  sometimes, along with the relevant  information, something else is also  written. And this happens because when  we do chunking, text splitting, we say,  "Brother, give us chunking at 900  characters." So, every 900 characters,  a new document starts getting created.  So, no thinking is done to ensure that  a topic should be in a single chunk.  Sometimes, what happens to a topic? It  gets split into two chunks. Sometimes,  a chunk covers more than one topic.  Because of that, we need knowledge  refinement. I'll walk you through an  example. So, knowledge refinement has  precisely three steps: the first is  decomposition, the second is filtration , and the third is decomposition. Okay?  So, what are we doing? Let's take an  example: let's say our D1 is this, and  our query, X, is written above. So, our  query is, "What is gradient descent?"  And after flipping through, we found a  document that appears on your screen.  It says, "Gradient descent is an  optimization algorithm used to minimize  a loss function. It iteratively updates  parameters in the direction of a  negative gradient." This entire  description is about gradient descent.  But read the next two lines. It says, " Neural networks are composed of layers  of neurons with non-linear functions.  Convolutional neural networks are  particularly effective for image  processing tasks." Now, this is part of  the same document, but it's not useful  for answering this question. So why is  it in the same document? The reason I  just told you is because of chunking.  Chunking was done in such a way that  this part came from the previous  sentence or the previous paragraph, and  this part perhaps came from the next  paragraph, so this document now  discusses two topics. But only the  first one is useful for us. So what  will we do now? We will refine this  whole thing using knowledge refinement.  So what is step one? Step one is your  decomposition. What do you do? You  divide your entire document into strips . Look here, you can see it: strip one,  strip two, strip three. Now, the paper  doesn't explain in great detail how to  do the striping. But they did explain  that stripping basically means breaking  down your entire document into  sentences. Roughly, into a single  sentence or a group of two sentences.  So we did the same. We broke down our  entire document into these four  sentences. This became our strip one.  This became our strip two. This became  our strip three. This is our strip four . There were four sentences here. We  separated those four sentences. That's  it. This completes our step one. Now  comes step two. What do you do in step  two? You do filtering. So basically  what you do? You take your query and  you take all the strips: S1, S2, S3, S4 , and you send them to an LLM. Not  exactly an LLM. You send them to a  model. Let me tell you. In fact, the  LLM used in this paper, the transformer  used, is T5 Large from Google. So the  authors fine-tuned this particular  transformer for this filtering task.  Okay? So what does this model do? What  does this T5 model do? It looks at this  query and looks at this strip. Like, it  looked at the query and looked at this  strip. And we have to give it a  confidence score based on how relevant  this strip is to answering this query.  Then it does the same thing with S2. It  does the same thing with S3. It does  the same thing with S4. And  automatically, it will understand that  strip one is useful. Strip two is also  useful. Strip three is not useful.  Strip four is not useful. So,  automatically, only two strips out of  four are left: S1 and S2. This is our  second step. Now comes step three. What  do you do in step three? You merge  these two sentences back, giving you  this paragraph again. Now this is your  Document One. You will use this to  generate answers, not this one. This  will not be used, instead this one will  be used. And you can see how, if we  send this one, it will improve the  quality of our generation. Okay? And  what will you do with the same thing?  You'll do the same with D2. For every  document that comes in your retrieval,  you'll apply this knowledge refinement  state to each document. Okay? So what  we're going to do now is we've got our  traditional rack system. Where  retrieval is happening, and then  generation is happening directly after  that. We'll add this refine step in  between. Okay? What we'll do? We'll  send the retrieved documents here.  We'll refine them, and then send the  refined documents to generation. So  that improves our generation. Okay? So  I hope you understand exactly what  we're going to do in step one. What  we're going to do in iteration one.  Another important thing: we're not  using T5 for filtering because the  authors haven't provided a link to  their fine-tuned T5. They've simply  stated that they used T5. So  unfortunately, we don't have this  fine-tuned T5 transformer. So instead,  we're forced to use Open AI's LLM. Okay ? Although, in the paper, they say it's  small, because this transformer has 770  million parameters. So, it's  lightweight, free, and its performance  is better than Open AI's LLM. They  explicitly wrote about this in the  paper for this particular task. But  unfortunately, since we don't have  access to this model, we'll use our LLM  from Open AI. Okay? I hope you're  getting the idea. Now, let me show you  the code. The code is pretty much the  same. The previous code I just showed  you is for the basic rack, for the  traditional rack. We've just made  improvements to it. We've added a new  node. Let me show you. So, here we've  imported your libraries. Here we've  loaded our documents. Here we performed  text splitting. Here we created  embeddings and stored them in the  vector store and created our retriever.  Here is our LLM. This is our state. Now  if you compare the state to the  traditional rack, there are only two or  three changes in the state. This was  the state of our traditional rack, and  this is the state of our improved rack.  Here we added three new things. We  added strips because when you take your  document and perform decomposition on  it, we will store all the strips here.  In kept strips, we will store the  strips that were finally selected. And  the refined context is basically a  combination or a real combination of  kept strips. Okay? So this is our state . Then here comes our retrieve node.  Exactly the same. This is a different  thing. This is our refine node. So if  you look here, what did we do first?  We've created a function whose job is  to convert a given string into strips.  Basically, we're breaking down a  document at the sentence level. Okay?  Let me show you the in-fact. So, let's  say I run this function independently  here and give it some text, if I let's  say this text, then this function will  work something like this. Okay? If I  run this, look, a list is created, and  within that list, we've created strips  at the sentence level. Okay? So that's  exactly what's happening here. You can  compress two sentences. Then we created  a method for our LLM that says, "Keep  is equal to true" only if the sentence  directly helps answer the question. Use  only the sentence output value and its  value will be this. Basically, it will  give us a true or false value. Okay? So , here we've created the structured  output, and this is our final Refine  node. Okay? What are we doing here?  First, we're taking the query. We're  taking all the documents and merging  them to create a context. Then, we're  passing that context to the  decomposeToSentences function, which  gives us all the strips. What are we  doing next? We're running a loop,  grabbing each strip and passing it to  the filter chain. This is the filter  chain we created here. Now, what the  filter chain is doing is giving the  question and the strip to the LLM,  asking if this strip is correct to  answer this question. And your LLM is  returning true or false, and we're  extracting it. If true, we're adding it  to this kept list. Simple logic. I mean , if you literally pause the video and  watch it once, you'll understand. So  what are we doing? We're putting all  the captured strips into a variable  called refined context. And then we're  returning all three things: all our  strips, the remaining captured strings,  and the refined context. Okay? So, our  refinement is done, and finally, this  is our generate node, which is exactly  the same as in the previous code. And  here, we've combined all three, and  because of that, this is the output  we're getting. Okay? So, we have  retrieve, refine, and generate. Now,  let me show you how the output comes  out. So, if I run "Explain the Bias  Variance Trade Off as a Query," this is  the output we're getting. See, this is  the output. It's almost the same. It's  just a little more specific based on  the strips. Okay? If we talk about what  documents did we get during retrieval?  Here, we got exactly the same documents  that I showed you in the last code. But  if you want to see, these are the kept  strips that were kept. These are the  kept strips, and then this refined  context was created from them. Look,  this is the refined context. Basically,  we got this entire thing. Look, this  entire thing was so big. We got four  documents. How much useful did we get  from these four documents? This much.  And then, based on this, we generated  our answer, which was this. You can see . So, this is how refinement is  implemented. Okay? So, we've just  covered this much part. This much we've  achieved. Okay? Now let's move on to  the next improvement. So, guys, let's  talk about the second improvement. The  second improvement is retrieval  evaluation. So, what we're going to do  now is, based on the documents  retrieved, we'll decide whether the  quality of the retrieval was good, bad,  or just okay. Okay? So, basically,  we're going to perform this step. We'll  determine whether the retrieval is  correct, completely wrong, or just okay . I'll tell you how to do it in between . So, what we'll do is, instead of this  retrieval evaluator, we'll use an LLM.  In our case, it'll be an open-chart  model of i. Okay? And the logic will be  very simple. What will we do? We'll  take a lower threshold. This lower  threshold will be 3 and an upper  threshold. The upper threshold will be  7. You can change this to your liking.  Now, what will we do? We'll send all  the retrieved documents to this LLM one  by one. So, if we have two retrieved  documents, we'll first assign it d1.  Then we'll assign it d2. And we'll tell  it to look at this question, look at  this document, and tell us how relevant  the content of this document is to  answer this question. Represent this by  a number between zero and one. So, the  LLM might say 9, meaning this document  is very relevant to answer this  question. It's also possible that our  LLM might say 1, meaning this document  is not relevant at all to answer this  question. Okay? So, we'll do this for  both documents. Now, let's say our LLM  said 8 for d1 and 5 for d2. So, based  on these two ratings, we'll determine  the quality of the retrieval. Three  possible cases are possible here. The  first case is "correct" which is this  one. When will it be correct? When at  least one document's rating is greater  than the upper threshold. Meaning, if  at least one document's rating is  greater than 7, we'll say the retrieval  was correct, and we want to generate  answers based on the retrieved  documents. For example, in this case,  since document one's rating is 8, which  is greater than the upper threshold,  we'll call it a correct case. Now,  listen, when will it be incorrect? The  criteria for incorrectness is very  simple. If not a single document's  rating exceeds the lower threshold,  we'll label it incorrect. For example,  suppose our LLM gives these scores to  these two documents: one and two. Since  neither document has a rating higher  than 3, we'll call the retrieval  incorrect, and we'll say that the  retrieved documents are not sufficient  to answer the question. That's why we  should go out and do a web search. I  hope you understand. Okay? So, what's  the criteria for incorrect? No document  has a retrieval score greater than the  lower threshold. And anything beyond  that, we'll call it ambiguous. Okay?  That means your LSAT score is 5.5.  That's ambiguous. Okay? I hope you  understand. So, you understand the  basic fundamentals of how to evaluate a  retrieval. I'll discuss two more  important things with you here. So,  imagine a scenario where we have three  retrieved documents. D1, D2, and D3,  and we sent all three to our LLM for  evaluation. D1 got a score of 8, D2 got  a score of 4, and D3 got a score of 2.  Suppose. Now, first, pause the video  and tell me how you would rate this?  Correct, incorrect, or ambiguous? The  answer is correct. Why? Because it's a  simple concept. If even one of your  documents exceeds the upper threshold,  you'll label it correct. Okay? So, it's  labeled correct. But one important  thing: you won't use these three  documents for Generation One. One more  thing you need to learn here: only  those documents whose evaluation score  is greater than the lower threshold  will be used for Generation One. This  is another important point mentioned in  the paper. This means that Document One  will be used for Generation One.  Document Two will also be used for  generation because it's higher than  Document Three. But Document Three  won't be used for generation because  its evaluation score is two, which is  less than the lower threshold. So this  means that any future generation, the  correct one, will be based on Document  One and Document Two. There won't be a  generation based on Document Three.  Okay? This is an important point. You  need to remember this. Okay? There's  another important thing I want to  discuss with you. We used an LLM from  Open AI for the evaluator here. But the  people who wrote this paper used a T5  large transformer instead. The same one  they used for refinement. So this is a  fine-tuned transformer that they used,  and they gave two reasons for this.  First, using this will be cheaper.  Obviously, and secondly, its  performance was even better than these  LLMs because they were fine-tuned for  this particular task. But unfortunately , we don't have access to this  fine-tuned T5 large transformer. That's  why we'll use LLMs. But you should know  this. Now that you understand the whole  concept, let's see how to implement it  in code. So, to keep the code simple,  what I've planned is that we'll  implement this evaluator, but I'll just  show you the correct part. Meaning, if  the evaluation is correct, we'll do the  entire step of knowledge refinement and  answer generation, because we've  already done that in the last code. But  let's say if the evaluator gives an  incorrect answer, we're expected to  conduct a web search. But we won't do  that right now. For now, if the result  is incorrect, we'll just print that the  result is incorrect. We won't do any  kind of generation. And the same with  ambiguous. Even if the result is  ambiguous, we won't generate anything.  Simply tell us that it's ambiguous.  Code is over. Okay? So now let me show  you how the code is implemented. So,  it's pretty much the same. We built  this code on top of the previous code.  So, it'll look pretty much the same to  you. Here we imported the libraries.  Here we imported three machine learning  books. Then, here we performed the text  splitting. Here we created our vector  database and created the retriever  object. This is our llm, which we'll  use through. This line is important and  new. Here we defined our upper  threshold and lower threshold. 07 and 3  again, the paper doesn't specify what  threshold they used. You can customize  it to your liking. After that comes the  state. You'll see many things similar  in the state. Both of these question  documents are the same: strips, kept  strips, refined context, and answer.  We've also borrowed these from the  previous code. What's new? These three  keys are new. The first is good dogs.  What are good dogs? All documents with  an evaluation score greater than 3 are  considered good dogs. Because we'll do  the generation based on them. Any  documents with an evaluation score less  than 3 will not be included in the good  dogs. Okay? Then comes the verdict. In  the verdict, we'll store whether it's  correct, incorrect, or ambiguous. Okay?  And in the reason, we'll store why we  gave the verdict. If correct, what's  the reason? If incorrect, what's the  reason? If ambiguous, what's the reason ? Okay? So, we've added these three new  fields to our state. Next, the first  node, the Retrieve node, is exactly the  same. Exactly the same as what you saw  in the previous two codes. Next, comes  this important and new element where  we'll evaluate our retrieval. Okay? So,  here, we've first created a pedantic  schema, which will give us two things:  a score for each document, and second,  the reason behind that score: if a  document is given a score of five, why  is it given a score? We're storing this  reason as well, so you can access that.  Okay? Next, we've created a system  framework for our LLM. We've said, " You're a strict retrieval evaluator for  RAG." You'll be given one retrieved  chunk as one document and a query.  Return a relevant score between zero  and one. One means the chunk alone is  sufficient to answer fully. And zero  means the chunk is irrelevant. Being  conservative with high scores also  returns a short region output (json  only). Then we've sent it in the form  of a human message, which is the  question and the chunk. Okay? And here  we've created a chain form with this  prt and our LLM, and there in the  structured output, we've sent this  pedantic schema. This will force our  LLM to output these two fields. After  that, comes our main node, which will  perform the evaluation. Now, the flow  here is very simple. You can understand  it easily by pausing the video. First,  we're fetching the question from the  state. After that, we're creating two  or three lists. One list is called  scores, in which we'll store the  evaluation score for each document.  Then we're creating a list of reasons.  This is where we'll store the score  each document was given. And then we're  creating another list to store the  documents that are good documents,  those with a score greater than 3. Okay ? After that, look what we're doing?  We're running a loop. This loop will  run as many times as we have documents.  We're sending each document to the LLM.  We're giving the question, and they're  giving the document, okay? D dot page  content. And we're asking them to tell  us what score they would give this  document and what's the reason behind  that score? Whatever score they get,  we're putting it into the score.  Whatever reason they get, we're putting  it into the region. Now, here we do a  simple thing. We ask if your score is  greater than the lower threshold. If a  particular document's score exceeds the  lower threshold, greater than 3, then  we're adding it to the Good Documents.  Okay? Now, we have three cases. The  first case is if even a single document  has a score greater than 7, then we  return this. Within Good Documents, all  Good Documents are Verdict: Correct,  and Reason: This. Then, if the  evaluation score of all documents is  less than three, then we return this.  There isn't a single Good Document.  Because obviously, none are above three . Verdict: Incorrect, and Reason: This.  If these two cases aren't true, then we  return this. What are we returning?  Whatever is Good within Good Documents,  Verdict: Ambiguous, and Reason: This.  So, this is our evaluator, which will  evaluate the retrieved documents. After  that, the rest of the code is exactly  the same. This is the code for  knowledge refinement that you saw in  the previous code. Exactly the same. No  changes. This is the code for  generation. No changes to this either.  I'll just do one small check. We're  making one small change to the refine  code here, and that change is that  we're not building context on all  documents. We're only building context  on good documents. I told you that  we'll only use good documents to  generate answers. We'll only use those  with a score greater than 3. So this is  the only change in this refine code.  After that, the generation code is  exactly the same. Then, we've built a  little more graph here. We've created a  fail node, an abgus node, and a route  called "after evaluation." It's very  simple. It says, "If the verdict is  correct, go to the refine note." If the  verdict is incorrect, go to the Web  Search note. And if it's ambiguous, go  to the Ambiguous node. Actually, there  won't be a Web Search here. There will  be a Fail node here. Okay? Or you can  write it like this. We can call it Web  Search. We can call it OK. Meaning,  there's no change in the meaning. Let's  just keep it as a Fail node and call it  an Ambiguous node. After that, we've  built a little more graph here. We've  created a couple more notes. We've  created a node for Failure as an  Incorrect and a node for Ambiguous. And  here we've defined routes. So if the  verdict is correct, we'll go to the  Refine note. If the verdict is  incorrect, we'll go to Web Search. If  it's abguous, we'll go to Ambiguous.  And this is exactly the graph defined  here. You can see that if it's on  Refine, go to the Refine node. If it's  on Web Search, go to the Fail node. If  it's on Ambiguous, go to the Ambiguous  node. And here's your graph structure.  It's a very simple structure. If it's  correct, first refine, then generate.  If it's incorrect, say it's incorrect,  and the code ends. If it's ambiguous,  say it's ambiguous, and your code ends.  As I said, we're not doing anything for  Ambiguous and Fail Incorrect right now.  We're only generating for Correct. So  let's take an example. I've taken three  examples here. So if you apply the  bias-variance tradeoff, this is a  document you'll likely find in books.  That's why there's a good chance that  for every document you have, at least  one document will score above 7. So,  this will be the correct case. Look,  the verdict is correct. What's the  reason? At least one retrieved chunk  code greater than 7. And here's our  output. Okay? If we enter this: AI news  from last week. This is a topic that  isn't covered at all in our books. So,  we should get an incorrect result for  this. Which means the score for all the  retrieved documents is less than three.  No chunk was sufficient. And I found  out through a lot of experimentation  that we get an ambiguous result for  this particular problem. Because it's a  problem like this: What are attention  mechanisms and why are they missing in  current models? So, we asked a small  question that's somewhat covered in one  book. And then we asked a question that  isn't covered at all. That's why it's  ambiguous. No single chunk was above 7,  but it wasn't all below three. That's  why it became ambiguous. Mixed signals  were received. In any case, we've built  a system that can evaluate the quality  of retrieval and tell you whether  you're correct, incorrect, or ambiguous . Now what will we do? We'll build  these two parts one by one. What will  we do first? We'll build the incorrect  part. Meaning, if it's incorrect, we'll  add a web search feature, and then  we'll implement the ambiguous path. So,  I hope you understand how we're  developing this architecture step by  step. From first principles, as I told  you at the beginning. I won't build the  entire thing at once and show it to you . I really want this idea to grow in  your mind, and we're working exactly on  that plan. So now let's move on to the  next iteration, where we'll add a web  search feature to our entire  architecture. The basic principle is  that our retrieval evaluator will tell  us whether the retrieved documents are  correct, incorrect, or ambiguous. If it  says that all the documents are  incorrect, meaning not a single  document is capable of answering the  question, what will we do? We won't  stop. We'll take our question and  search it on the internet. For this,  we'll use Tavly, which we also used in  the last video. Tavly will provide us  with results, and we'll use these  results to generate the answer. The  basic philosophy is that even if our  documents aren't ready or sufficient to  answer the question, we don't want to  send the user away empty-handed. We  want to show them the correct result,  even if we have to search for it on the  web. Okay? So, in a way, we're making  our system a little more robust. So,  developing this feature is actually  quite simple because in the past, we've  learned how to connect the Tableau API  with our Landgraph code. There's only  one complexity. The complexity is that  if you pay attention to this diagram,  it says you're taking your query and  sending it to Tableau over the internet  as in Tableau. Tableau is searching the  web and returning multiple documents.  Okay? Basically, like a search page,  where one search result is this, one  search result is this, one search  result is this. But the problem is that  not all of these search results are  necessarily useful for generating  answers. It's possible that only a few  of them are good. So, what do we need  to do here? We need to filter and  retrieve only the correct results to  answer the question. So, what happens?  When I read the paper a little deeper,  I learned that when you receive  documents from a web search, you refine  them, and only generate them from the  refined documents. This refinement is  exactly the same as this one. So, you  take the web documents, first convert  them into strips, then filter them  using a model like LLM or T5, and then  recombine them into a context. That  context is called the external  knowledge base, based on which  generation occurs. So, what do we  essentially need to do here? We send  the documents received from a web  search to Refine, to the Refine node,  and then Refine will generate them. So,  essentially, we need an architecture  like this. So this is correct, this is  incorrect, and this is ambiguous, which  we're not talking about right now. Okay ? So the idea behind correct was that  we refined and generated whatever  documents came from retrieval. The idea  behind incorrect was that we first took  that query and performed a web search.  We also refined and generated any new  documents we received from web search.  So, essentially, we'll reuse a bit of  code here. We'll reuse this refined and  generated code. We don't need to write  one more refined code and one more  generation code for web search. So,  that's what I've implemented in the  code. I'll show you. So, again, the  code will look mostly similar to you  because we've built on top of the  previous code. Here we imported all the  libraries. Here we loaded the documents . Here we performed text splitting.  Here, your embeddings have been  generated. The retriever object has  been created. This is our LLM. These  are our thresholds. There's just one  small change in the state. Everything  is the same. We've just added a new key  called WebDocs where we'll store all  the documents we're getting from the  web. Okay? After that, the retrieving  node is exactly the same. The  evaluating node I showed you in the  previous code is exactly the same.  You're returning the same three things:  Okay, I'm sorry, Verdict: Correct,  Verdict: Incorrect, and Verdict:  Ambiguous. Okay? After that, the refine  code will change slightly. Because, as  I told you, there are two logics for  refinement. It's possible that your  document is coming through Correct,  meaning you have retrieved documents.  It's also possible that you're getting  WebDocs. So, depending on that, what  did we do? Here, we implemented a  simple logic: if the verdict is correct , we build the context based on the  good docs, and if it's incorrect, we  build the context based on the web docs . Okay? The rest of the logic is  exactly the same. Okay? Then this code  is a little different. Here, we've  created a new node to search the web.  We're using Tableau. How to use Tableau ? I created it in the previous video. I  told you you need an API, and the rest  is pretty simple. You ask a query and  send it to Tableau. Tableau returns the  results. We extract the title, URL, and  content of each result, convert them to  a document object, and store them in  state. There's no particularly  difficult code here. After that, the  generation code is exactly the same as  it has been. And here, we removed the  failed node. Because now the web search  node has replaced it. The Ambiguous  node is still the same because we  didn't touch anything there. The  routing logic is also exactly the same.  We made a few changes here because now  you have to connect your web search to  Refine. So this change here is the  reason why this is the graph that  you're getting. Okay? Now look, if I'm  querying AI news from the last month,  see what's happening. First, the  verdict is incorrect. The reason is  being shown, and look at the output.  Now the output is not empty. The output  shows that last January, a notable AI  news item included a new open source AI  assistant called Open Claw, which has  gained a lot of popularity on the  platform. Furthermore, physical AI made  a strong presence at CES 2026. So, can  you see what's happening now? If we  believe our documents can't answer our  query, we're going on to the web,  fetching results. And what are we doing  with those results? We're using them to  generate the answer. So, you can see  now our system is getting more robust.  Even if there's a fault, we're able to  show the results to the user. Okay? So,  that's our next improvement. Guys,  let's talk about the next improvement.  This is a small one. But the paper says  it's a variant improvement that you  should use in your architecture. So,  first, let me explain what this  improvement is. This improvement is  called Query Rewrite. And if you look  carefully, especially in this case  where the query is incorrect and you  have to search online, you'll notice a  small thing: the original query asked  by user X was "Who was the screenwriter  for Death of a Batman?" What are you  doing? You're not searching this user  query directly on the internet. Instead , you're rewriting the query first and  calling this rewritten query "why." And  in this case, the query looks something  like this: "Death of a Batman  screenwriter Wikipedia." So, basically,  you've converted it into this. Now,  you'll ask, what's the difference? The  difference is that this query, the  written query, is more appropriate for  a search engine. So, the user's query  may be a bit weak, and if you send  those weak queries to a search engine,  the results you get back won't be as  good. Look, I've explained this here.  The user's query might be LLM and  Recent Developments. Now, such a query  could be vague, under-specified,  missing keywords, or missing time  constraints. So, what you should do in  such a situation is to send a slightly  better query to the search engine.  Because search engines find such  queries more appropriate. Where  everything is clearly specified,  there's no vagueness, and your query is  keyword-rich, you get richer results.  So, that's why the authors of the paper  said that before performing a web  search, rewrite the user's query into a  better query. And to do this, you use a  LLM again, in which you send the  original user query as input. Here, you  enter a prompt saying, "Look at this  user query, understand it, and generate  better search queries from it." Why?  And then use those search queries to  search on Tavli. Get results and then  generate results based on that. So,  simply put, you need to make this small  change: when you enter an incorrect  path here, you have to rewrite your  query before searching the web. That's  the only change you need to make. And  I'll show you how to do it in the code.  So, I've created a new file for this  improvement. Again, the code will seem  very familiar to you because we've  built on top of the previous one. Here  we imported the libraries. Here we  loaded the documents. Here we did  chunking as text splitting. Here we  created our vector database and our  retriever object. Here we created our  LLM. Here our thresholds are exactly  the same. Here we have our state, which  is again almost the same. We've just  added one new element, called Web Query , where we'll store the revised query.  Okay? After that comes the Retrieve  node, which is exactly the same. Then  comes the Evaluate node, which is again  exactly the same. Then comes your  Refine node, which is again the same  depending on the verdict. Either you're  sending GoodDocs, or you're sending Web . Everything else is exactly the same.  Here's the main change, where you wrote  the Tavli code. Now, what are we doing  before the Tavli code? We're adding  another node: the RewriteQuery node.  Okay? Now, in this RewriteQuery node,  we've created a pedantic schema called  Query. We've written a system prompt  that says, "You're a web search query  composer." And these are the rules to  follow. Keep it short. If a query  implies recency, then add two  constraints, like 'last 30 days', 'do  not answer the question', return 'j s  on with a single query'-query, fine.  And here we added our query, which was  the original user's query. And here we  created our chain. Here we assigned our  user's query to that chain. Here we got  our web query. We stored that web query  in state. Now, everything in the  Tableau code is the same. There's only  one difference: the query we're asking  Tableau is a web query rather than the  original user's query. That's the only  difference. And after that, the  generation code is exactly the same.  This is the code for the abigus node.  This is the routing code. Exactly the  same. The graph structure is almost the  same as last time. There's only one  difference. The node for the right  query came before the web search.  That's it. This is how our graph looks.  Okay? Now let me show you what changed.  Let's say we asked for "recent AI news. " This is a very user-friendly query.  The user hasn't entered much  information into it. They just want a  quick answer. If you send such a query  to a table, you won't get very good  results. But when I ran it, you can  still see good results. And when I ran  the web query, look, this was the web  query "recent AI news last 30 days." So , it was our LLM's intelligence that it  understood that defining a period in  this query would yield better results,  and it did. This wasn't part of our  original query. Okay? So, this is the  step. However, from what I've  experimented with, it doesn't help much  in most situations. But since the  authors insisted, this should also be  included in the architecture. And I  want this video to be very close to the  original paper. That's why I  implemented it and demonstrated it,  because it's not a very difficult  feature in itself. You just need an LLM , and you just want to rewrite the  original user query into a search  engine-optimized query. So this is it.  And now we're quite close to the  original architecture of the paper. Now , we just have one last thing to do.  And what do we have to do? We have to  define this ambiguous path. We have to  create it. After that, our architecture  will be complete. So, if we talk about  the ambiguous case, what's happening in  the ambiguous case is that we're  getting multiple documents returned  from retrieval. Let's say D1, D2, D3.  Now, none of these documents has an  evaluation score higher than 7. This  means that the document evaluation  score of all three is less than 7, but  at the same time, the condition is also  true that all of these documents score  more than 3. So, we consider this to be  the Abgus case, which basically means  that these retrieved documents,  completely on their own, cannot justify  the query the user has asked. They  cannot fully answer the user's query.  But at the same time, they are not so  weak that you can completely ignore  them. So, what the authors proposed in  this case was that we would keep these  documents, but at the same time, we  would also perform a web search. By  merging the documents obtained through  web search with the stored documents,  we would create a new context, and the  generation would take place from that  new context. That's the idea behind  Abgus. You'll also use your retrieved  documents, at least all the documents  that are good dogs and score more than  3. At the same time, you'll also  perform a web search, combine them all,  create a larger context, and then  generate answers based on that context.  Okay? So what will we do in this case?  We'll use a smart approach. We'll  intelligently use the concept of a  state in a graph. So, if you remember,  our graph looked something like this:  This was the third branch. What will we  do now? We'll completely eliminate this  third branch. Okay? This ambiguous part  will no longer exist. So, you're  wondering how to handle the third case?  This is where the benefit of using a  state comes in. What will we do? We'll  simply have two cases. One case will be  for correct ones, and this second case  will be for incorrect ones and  ambiguous ones. Okay? So, if it's  correct, meaning at least one document  is more than 7, we'll follow this path,  refine it, and generate the answer.  What if it's incorrect? We'll rewrite  the query, search the web, fetch the  web docs, refine it, and generate it.  If it's ambiguous, what we'll do is  evaluate it. We've discovered it's  ambiguous. We'll rewrite the query,  fetch the web docs. So, we have the web  docs. But think about it, we also have  the good docs right here. So, what will  we do now? In the refine process, we  won't work on just the good docs or  just the web docs, but on the good docs  plus the web docs in this refine stage,  and then we'll generate the context  from the resulting context. That's the  main idea. So, the entire magic is in  the refine node. I'll show you the code . Look, the code is very simple. Here  we've imported the libraries. Loaded  the documents, performed text splitting , created the vector database. Created  the retriever object. Loaded the LLM.  Defined the thresholds. There's nothing  new in the state. Everything in the  previous code will remain the same. The  retrieve code will be exactly the same.  The evaluation code will be exactly the  same. The only difference will be in  the refine code. And what difference  will that be? Look at this. What were  we doing before? If the verdict was  correct, we used Good Docs. If it was  incorrect, we used Web Docs. But now a  third case has emerged: an abbreviation . In that case, we'll use both Good  Docs and Web Docs. Okay? And we'll do  all the work on the context created by  combining the two. We'll decompose it.  We'll filter it, and based on that,  we'll create the refined context.  That's the only difference. Okay? Then  we're rewriting the web query here.  This code is exactly the same. Then  we're performing the tavli search.  That's exactly the same. The generation  code is exactly the same. Just look  here, we've completely removed the  ambiguous node. And here, we've changed  the routing logic a little. What logic  have we created? If the verdict is  correct, we go straight to Refine. If  both, except this one, are correct, if  both cases are either incorrect or  ambiguous, then we go to Rewrite Query.  This one has OK, and that's it. We've  completely defined the graph for the  next step, and we're good to go. Right,  now look at this example: I searched  for "batch normalization vs. layer  normalization." As far as I know, batch  normalization is defined in the three  books we have. I'm sorry, or, batch  normalization is defined. Layer  normalization is not defined. Okay? So  when I ran this query, the verdict was  "Ambiguous." What was the reason? No  chunks scored 7, but all were a. This  reason is a bit misspelled. Basically,  the idea is that none were greater than  7, and none were less than 0.3. Okay?  So, we ran the web query and got this  output. Okay? So, in this case, we used  both. We used the good docs. We used  the web docs. We combined them to  create a refined context based on which  the generation was done. So, the third  case here actually merges in the  incorrect thing. And because of the  state, this task became much easier. We  got our work done in two cases instead  of three. And now, after doing this, if  I show you this diagram again, you'll  appreciate after watching this entire  video that we've truly developed this  entire architecture from scratch. See,  we have retrieval. We have evaluation.  Three cases are being created, and all  three are being handled properly. If  it's correct, knowledge refinement  occurs and we get the answer. If it's  abject, we go through both parts. If  it's incorrect, a web search is  performed, and you can see the  generation step. In the correct case,  only internal knowledge is used. In the  abject case, both are used, and in the  incorrect case, only external knowledge  is used. So, we've written very  true-to-the-paper code. Obviously, we  didn't do some things. For example, we  didn't use the T5 transformer. We don't  even know where to find it. So we've  used LLM. But you get the idea. You  should understand the C () string, as  in corrective string (), well at the  architectural level. After watching  this entire video, I'd recommend going  through the codes I've written and  writing your own. It would be much  better, but I hope you understand the C  string. So with that, I'll conclude  this video. I hope you like this video,  and in the future, I'll try to cover  other advanced track techniques as well . Let me know which ones you'd like in  the comments. Ah, if enough people  comment, I'll try to cover that topic.  Okay? So with that, I'll close the  session. Bye. See you in the next video .