Hi guys, my name is Nitesh and welcome  to my YouTube channel. In this video,  we will continue our LangChain playlist . In the last video, we studied chains,  and I explained how chains work  internally. If you want to understand  that, you have to study runnables, and  in today's video, we are going to cover  runnables. Now, if I give you a brief  introduction about today's video, it is  a very technical video, and it is  important in the sense that if you  watch today's video end-to-end and  understand it, you will gain a much  deeper understanding of LangChain. As a  framework, I can say that you will  become friends with LangChain. The only  problem is that after making this video , I am not really sure what kind of  video I have created. Because in the  process of making this video, first of  all, I did a lot of research. I read  the documentation for LangChain  versions one, two, and three. I read  the documentation of all three and  tried to understand why runnables exist  in LangChain. What were the problems,  and I have tried to put all that  research into this video, and after  that, I have also explained things by  writing code from scratch. The only  problem is that after this video is  made, I don't know if this video has  turned out well or not. So, I request  you all to watch the video completely  once and give me some feedback because  right now I am a bit confused about  this video. But whatever it is, if you  understand this video, then you will  enjoy it a lot. So, let's start the  video. So guys, before starting the  video, let's take a recap of the last  video. Because today's video is very  much connected to the previous one. So,  in the last video, we learned how to  build chains in LangChain. I have told  you that chains are a very important  component of LangChain. So, in the last  video, we saw what chains are. Why are  they needed? And then we learned to  build three different types of chains.  First, we learned how you can build a  sequential chain. After that, parallel  chains, and after that, conditional  chains. Right? Now, in today's video,  we are going to study a concept named  runnables. And runnables are important  because behind the scenes, chains are  able to work precisely because they are  built with the help of runnables. Okay?  So, I know at this point it might not  be making much sense what I am saying.  Just understand that to run chains, you  need to know the concept of runnables.  If you don't know the concept of  runnables, you won't be able to use  chains effectively. Okay? So, moving  forward, in today's video, I will tell  you what runnables are. Why are they  needed? And then, I will cover and show  you the different types of runnables  available in LangChain in this video.  Okay? So, let's start the video. Now  guys, what are runnables? Before  understanding this, you have to  understand why runnables exist, and for  that, we need to go into a bit of a  flashback. So, it's about 2022 when  ChatGPT was released. Around November.  Around this time, OpenAI also opened  their APIs to the general public, which  meant that you could interact with  OpenAI's APIs to build your own  LLM-based applications. Right? Around  this time, the LangChain team—I mean,  the people who built LangChain— realized that going forward in the  future, there would be a lot of demand  for LLM-based applications because LLMs  would become more powerful, and they  have the capability to not only  understand human text but also provide  relevant replies. In the future, it was  certain that many applications would  use LLMs to perform their tasks, and  this turned out to be true. If you look  today, every company has its own  chatbot, which is actually an LLM-based  application. Many PDF readers exist.  Where you can not only read a PDF but  also ask it questions. Apart from this,  many types of AI agents have come into  the market that use LLMs to do their  work. So, the LangChain team felt that  if the demand for building such  applications—that is, LLM-based  applications—was going to grow in the  future, then we should create a  framework here that makes building  LLM-based applications easier. Now, the  only thing to think about is what we  can offer in our framework that will  help developers. Right? So here, the  LangChain team observed that OpenAI is  just one company building LLMs. There  are other companies too that are  building LLMs. Such as Anthropic,  Google. Mistral. A lot of such  companies gradually started entering  the market. Who had their own LLMs.  Right? Now the problem was that every  company's API behaved differently. So  the LangChain team thought, what if we  build a framework that helps you talk  to any company's API? As in, talk to  any company's LLM. And then what did  they do? They built LangChain and  created classes for different companies  in such a way that you can quickly talk  to any company's LLM API by doing  minimal code changes. So, this was the  first problem the LangChain team solved . And because of this, LangChain became  popular and people started using  LangChain to build LLM-based  applications. Now, gradually, the  LangChain team identified another  problem. The LangChain team saw that  when people build LLM-based  applications, obviously, in the process  of building it, you interact with the  LLM with the help of APIs. But  interacting with the LLM is a very  small part of building this entire  application. Apart from this, you have  to do many other tasks as well. For  example, if you are building a PDF  reader, then you will execute many  types of tasks to build this whole  application. First, you will load the  PDF. Suppose it is stored on the cloud,  then you are loading it from there.  After that, you will split it into  small parts. Based on chapters, based  on pages, based on paragraphs. You will  generate embeddings for each part. You  will store those embeddings in some  database, as in some vector database.  After that, you will use a retriever  that will perform a semantic search for  future queries and give you the most  relevant chunk. Right? After that, you  will send the most relevant chunk to  the LLM. The LLM's response will come  back. You will parse it and show it to  the user. So you can see that in this  entire flow, talking to the LLM is just  one task. Just one component. Apart  from this, there are so many other  important components like loading the  document, splitting it, generating its  embeddings, storing it in a vector  database, the entire retrieval process  where you are doing semantic search.  Then finally, showing the output  correctly to the user. So the LangChain  team realized that until now we were  only focusing on this aspect. But what  if we could help developers with the  rest of the things too? Then LangChain  would become an even more powerful  framework and more people would adopt  it. So, that is exactly what the  LangChain team did. What they did was  create components for all these  important parts involved in the process  of building LLM applications. For  instance, they created a Document  Loader component for loading documents.  There is a separate Text Splitter  component for splitting data. There are  separate components for Embedding  models for embeddings. Separate  components were created for vector  databases and retrievers. A component  called Parser was introduced to parse  the output. Basically, over time, the  LangChain team looked at and understood  different types of LLM applications,  broke them down into various components , and wrote helper classes for all  those components. Now, LangChain not  only supported interacting with LLMs  but also had components related to  everything else required to build an  LLM application. There were document  loaders, retrievers, support for  interacting with embedding models, text  splitters, output parsers, and a memory  component. Combined, all of this made  LangChain a very powerful library. Now,  as a developer, what I can do is pick  up all these components to build my  application and connect them to one  another to create any type of LLM-based  application. Now, I will show you two  code examples of how easily you can  build LLM-based applications with the  help of these LangChain components. The  first code example is for a very simple  LLM application. Where you ask the user  for a topic, use that topic to create a  prompt, send that prompt to the LLM,  and then display the LLM's response to  the user. A very simple LLM application . I will show you this, and secondly,  the entire PDF reader flow I showed you  earlier, which involves many steps. How  you can build that with the help of  LangChain components. I will show you  that through code as well. Okay? Just  to show you how easy it has become to  write all this code with the creation  of these components. So, let's first  look at this simple LLM application. So , here is its code. You have already  seen this, by the way. You have already  seen all this code before. But again, I  am showing it to you just so you get a  revision of this flow. So, what are you  doing here? You are forming an LLM with  the help of the LLM component of  LangChain. Okay? So here, we are not  using a chat model. Because I am  talking about old things. We are in a  flashback when LLMs used to be used  instead of chat models. So here, we are  creating an LLM with the help of the  LLM component. What you see here is  that we are making a prompt with the  help of the Prompt Template component.  Okay? After that, we are asking the  user for a topic here. We are sending  that topic to the prompt. Through which  we get our formatted prompt. And then,  as soon as we have our formatted prompt . We are sending it to the LLM and  telling the LLM to predict its response . Whatever response we get, we are  printing it and showing it to the user.  Right? So you can see how easily we  built this simple LLM application with  the help of these two components, the  LLM component and the Prompt Template  component. Now I will show you the PDF  reader component. The PDF reader  application. So look here, exactly  step-by-step, just as I drew for you  here. Exactly all those things will  happen. First of all, we have to load  the document. So let's assume we don't  have a PDF, but a text file instead. So  what did we do here? There is a  component in the LLM called Text Loader  within document loaders. Using that, we  quickly loaded our document. After that , there is a component called Recursive  Character Text Splitter. With its help,  we divided our entire document into  parts. After that, there is a component  called Vector Store. You can see there  is a component called Vector Store  which has different types of vector  stores. With its help, what we did was  generate embeddings for all of our  small chunks with the help of this  component. And we stored those  embeddings in this vector database.  Okay? So, we have reached this far.  This thing is done, this thing is done,  this thing is done. This is also done.  Now what do we have to do? We have to  form a retriever that will perform a  semantic search. So here, we have  formed a retriever. Now the user's  query arrived. Okay? So what did we do?  With the help of the retriever, we  quickly embedded this query and  performed a semantic search in our  vector database, which gave us the  relevant text closest to our query. Now  we have this retrieved text. So, we  called the LLM component again. We sent  this prompt into it. Where we included  the user's query as well. And we also  sent the retrieved document that came  from the PDF, and then we had it  predict the answer again and displayed  it. So, even if you don't understand  this code yet because we haven't  discussed RAG from a coding perspective . But still, I can understand that you  must be able to see that after these  components were built, you are  literally able to build such a complex  application with the help of 36 lines  of code. So, I just want to show you  for now how easy it has become for us  developers and AI engineers to build  such LLM-based applications after the  creation of these different components.  I really hope I have been able to prove  this point to you so far. So, the story  so far has been going very smoothly.  The LangChain team has created various  components, and AI engineers are  connecting and plugging these  components in different ways to build  different types of LLM applications.  Now, here came the real Eureka moment.  When the LangChain team noticed a very  interesting thing. The LangChain team  noticed that when AI engineers are  building LLM applications by connecting  different components in different ways,  there are some things in common. In  every application, in every type of LLM  application, there are some things in  common. For example, one common thing  is that in every type of LLM  application, you create a prompt and  then you send that prompt to the LLM.  This is a task you will see in every  type of LLM application. Whether you  are building a chatbot, a PDF reader,  or an AI agent. You will definitely  create a prompt and you will definitely  send it to the LLM. Now, here the  LangChain team had an idea. They  thought that until now, creating this  prompt and then sending it to the LLM  was a task that AI engineers were doing  manually. Meaning, if I show you in the  code, you first create a prompt  template. You create an LLM. Then, with  the help of that prompt template, you  call the format function to generate  the actual prompt, and then you send  that actual prompt to the LLM dot  predict function to generate the result . Right now, you have to do all this  work manually by coding it by hand. But  what if I were to automate this task?  This means "what if" we create a  built-in function where you just pass  your LLM and your prompt template, and  then you call this function. And behind  the scenes, this function automatically  generates the prompt from the prompt  template, sends that generated prompt  to the LLM, and gives you the result  directly; then the work of AI engineers  would become much easier. Because now  there is another level of abstraction.  Right? So, this entire thought process,  where you were connecting multiple  components with the help of some  built-in function. The LangChain team  named this "Chains". Because what are  you essentially doing? You are  connecting two or more components  together. You are giving it the form of  a pipeline. You are giving it the form  of a chain. That is why they called  these built-in functions, whose job was  to connect two or more components  together, "Chains," and the simplest of  those chains is named "LLM Chain,"  whose job is that if you provide it an  LLM and a prompt, it can generate the  prompt and send it to the LLM. So now,  I will show you how the code we wrote,  where we were doing all this manually.  How you can do it with the help of LLM  Chain. So here is our code. This is  where we created our LLM. This is where  we created our prompt template. Now  notice what we are doing? We are  calling a built-in function named LLM  Chain. We are giving it two things. Our  LLM and our prompt template. And apart  from that, we didn't do anything else.  We didn't even manually call the format  function. We didn't call the predict  function either. We simply ran this  chain. We specified our topic, and  behind the scenes, the prompt was  automatically generated and sent to  this LLM, and in return, I got the  result which I displayed here. So  essentially, by using this chain, I  didn't have to do the manual work I was  doing earlier, and it made my job  easier. And this was a huge eureka  moment. Because this is just a very  simple chain. The LangChain team  realized there are some other very  complex tasks being reused across  different kinds of LLMs. So, what if we  create built-in chain functions for  those complex tasks as well? Like your  PDF reader task. Now, in this PDF  reader task, you are essentially  implementing RAG. Right? The LangChain  team saw that for any kind of RAG  application you build. You definitely  perform retrieval in it. Retrieval  means the user gives you a query. You  search for this query across your  entire vector database and try to  figure out which specific chunk this  query is related to. Right? For  instance, there is a whole book on  machine learning, and we have stored it  page by page in embedding form in a  vector database. Now, someone asks the  query: "What are the five assumptions  of linear regression?" Clearly, the  question being asked is related to  linear regression. So, instead of  searching the entire book, we will  first search to see which part this  query is applicable to. So, this  searching happens, and it turns out  this question is related to the linear  regression chapter. So, this is what  happens in retrieval. You receive a  query. You have your document in a  vector database. You extract the  relevant text from it. Then, using the  relevant text that comes out and this  query, you create a new prompt where  you say, "Hey, answer this query based  on these relevant documents," and then  you send this prompt to the LLM, right?  And then the LLM sends you a response  back. If you notice here, exactly this  code is written. This is the query.  From here, we extracted our retrieved  text. This is the prompt we created: " Based on the following text.""Answer  the questions." This is my query. This  is my retrieved text. We sent this to  the LLM, and the LLM answered back.  Right? Now, this task is something you  will find in every RAG application, and  it is called the retrieval task. So  again, the LangChain team got this idea  that what if I convert this entire task  into a chain and provide a function to  AI engineers where you only need to  specify two things when calling that  function. First, you have to specify  your LLM. Second, you have to specify  your retriever. And as soon as you  provide these two things and call this  chain, all this work will automatically  happen behind the scenes. So, they also  created a chain for this called the  RetrievalQA chain. Now I will show you  how you can build this same application  with the help of this chain. Look here,  the flow is exactly the same. You are  loading the document. You are splitting  it. Here you created your vector store.  Here you created your retriever. Here  you created your LLM. Now look at what  you are doing here. You are using this  chain. You are sending your LLM. You  are sending your retriever. And your  user query came in, and you just ran  your chain. You got the answer. You  didn't even need to do all of that.  Where you were manually doing semantic  search yourself. Then joining all the  text. Then designing the prompt. You  didn't need to do any of this. Where it  used to take 36 lines of code to do  this, now you can do the same work in  32 lines of code. So this was a huge  idea that made LangChain very popular.  And then the LangChain team didn't just  stop at the LLM chain and RetrievalQA  chain. After that, they created many  more chains. They analyzed many other  use cases, and wherever they felt a  task was being reused everywhere, they  started creating chain functions to  execute that task. So I have added a  list of the top 10 most used chains  here. But trust me, this is not a  complete list. Besides this, many other  chains exist within LangChain. For  example, there is this chain called  Simple Sequential Chain. In a Simple  Sequential Chain, what you do is you  take two or more LLM chains and combine  them together to make a bigger chain.  Suppose you want to build an  application where the user gives you a  topic, and you generate a joke from  that topic, and then with the help of  that joke, you also generate an  explanation of that joke. So here,  notice that you have to talk to the LLM  twice. Once to generate a joke and the  second time to generate its explanation . So this part is handled by one LLM  chain and this part is handled by  another LLM chain, and then you connect  both of them with the help of a Simple  Sequential Chain. So for all such use  cases where the LangChain team felt  that yes, we can execute this task  through a chain. The LangChain team  started creating chain functions there.  Similarly, something called Sequential  Chain came along, where you can again  connect multiple LLM chains. But here,  you can work with multiple inputs and  multiple outputs. Apart from that, if  you want to work with SQL databases,  there is a separate chain for that. If  you want to work with APIs, there is an  API chain for that. If you want to work  with math-based problems, then there is  an LLM Math chain. So you get my point  that the LangChain team thought they  had cracked a huge idea that by  connecting components together, they  could form different chains, and then  using those chains, AI engineers could  very easily build their LLM-based  applications. But the LangChain team  did not anticipate one thing: that they  were going to get trapped in a huge  problem. What was that problem? I will  tell you. The problem was that over  time, the LangChain team created too  many chains. Too many chains; they kept  seeing many use cases and created  chains to solve every use case. In fact , if you go to the LangChain  documentation, you will see how many  chains they have. You can see, right?  Now, having so many chain functions has  two major disadvantages. The first  disadvantage is that the LangChain  codebase became very large. Having a  large codebase is very problematic.  Because now what will you have to do?  You will have to actively maintain such  a large codebase. Right? That is a big  problem. And the second problem was  that the new AI engineers who were  learning LangChain couldn't even  understand which chain is for which use  case. Basically, the learning curve to  learn LangChain became very steep.  Right? Now, if I have 50 types of  chains available, I should also know  when to use each chain, right? So, a  lot of time was being spent on learning  this. What happened was that while the  LangChain team thought chains were a  very powerful concept and would help  make LangChain a very powerful library.  After a while, the whole thing  backfired. Now, because there were so  many chains, their codebase became  heavy and it became difficult for new  AI engineers to learn LangChain. Now,  let's talk about this situation because  I think it's a bit funny that the  LangChain team wanted to help AI  engineers more. But in the process of  helping, they ended up shooting  themselves in the foot and made it even  more difficult for new learners to  learn LangChain. Now, let's try to  understand why this happened. So, if I  try to understand what the LangChain  team's intent was. What did they want?  Their intent was that they had created  a lot of components in LangChain.  Separate components for LLMs, separate  for prompts, and many other components.  And they wanted AI engineers to be able  to seamlessly plug these components  together and create any type of  flexible workflow. Kind of like Lego  blocks. They wanted each component to  be treated like a Lego block so that  you could connect multiple Lego blocks  in any way to form any structure. This  was the LangChain team's goal. But to  build this, they relied on chains,  created a ton of them, and creating so  many chains made the code heavy and the  learning curve steep. So let's  understand why they had to create so  many chains. The biggest reason for  this is that all these LangChain  components, like LLMs, prompts, parsers , and retrievers. All these components  are not standardized. By standardized,  I mean that these components do not  follow the same set of standards. They  have been developed independently and  they behave in different ways. Let me  explain this to you with an example. If  you talk about the LLM component, you  have to call the predict function to  interact with it. See, you use the  predict function to call the LLM.  Whereas for prompt templates, you use  the format function. For a retriever,  you call the get_relevant_documents  function. And if you have created a  parser, there is a method called parse  to deal with it. So the fundamental  issue is that these components were  never designed from the start to  connect seamlessly with one another.  And that is why when the LangChain team  faced the pressure to connect two or  more components seamlessly, they had to  write manual functions to get the job  done. For example, if you want to  connect LLMs and Prompts, these two  components need to be linked together.  But since their interfaces were not  built to connect with each other, you  end up writing manual code to connect  them. You create your own function, the  LLM Chain. Similarly, for retrieval,  you had to combine many things to build  a chain. But since those components  aren't compatible with each other, you  had to write custom code to create that  compatibility, and that code took the  shape of the Retrieval QA Chain  function. And this is what the  LangChain team had to do repeatedly;  for every new use case, they had to  create new custom code, that is, a new  function. Ideally, the best-case  scenario would be that all these  components followed the same standards,  which would allow you to connect them  seamlessly without writing custom code,  meaning you wouldn't need to write  these types of custom functions at all.  And this was the biggest mistake of the  LangChain team; when they built these  components, they didn't make them  standardized, and that is why in the  future, when it came time to join them  into chains, they had to write a ton of  custom code. They had to create many  custom functions. So I really hope I  was able to convey this point. So  finally, the LangChain team realized  their mistake and understood that they  would have to rebuild all these  components, and this time, they had to  ensure that all these components were  standardized and could connect  seamlessly with one another. And how  would this be possible? I guess you can  understand, with the help of Runnables.  So now, I have taken a lot of time to  explain the 'why' part to you. Now  let's move toward the 'what', as in  what exactly is a Runnable? Alright  guys, now let me try to explain to you  what Runnables are. So, in very simple  words, you can call a Runnable a unit  of work. So, every Runnable you come  across in LangChain has a specific  purpose. It performs a task and gives  you the result. Which means that you  send some input to the Runnables. So  guys, let me try to explain to you what  Runnables are. In very simple terms,  you can think of Runnables as a unit of  work. Every Runnable you see in  LangChain has a specific purpose. It  has a specific task. Which means you  can provide an input to that Runnable.  That Runnable processes the input and  gives you an output in return. This is  the first characteristic of a Runnable.  The second characteristic is that every  Runnable that exists in LangChain  follows a common interface. Which means  you will see the same set of methods in  every Runnable. For example, a very  popular method you will find in every  Runnable is called invoke. Using invoke , you can give an input to the Runnable , and then the Runnable gives you an  output in return. Similarly, there is  another method we call batch. With the  help of batch, a Runnable can process  multiple inputs simultaneously and give  you multiple outputs at once. Similarly , there is a method called stream,  which helps you extract streaming  output from a Runnable. So the basic  idea is that all Runnables existing in  LangChain follow a common interface,  meaning they contain the same set of  methods with the same names; invoke,  for example, will exist identically in  all Runnables. And point number three:  since all Runnables are built with a  common interface, you can connect these  Runnables together and execute  workflows of any complexity. Right? So,  let's say you have a Runnable R1 and a  Runnable R2. These are designed in such  a way that you can connect them to each  other. And the biggest advantage of  connecting them is that R 1's output  will automatically serve as the input  for R2. If there is another Runnable R3  and you want to connect it as well,  then automatically, R 2's output will  serve as the input for R3. So, you can  connect Runnables in any way to create  a workflow of any complexity. And the  fourth point is that when you connect  Runnables to create a workflow, this  workflow itself is a Runnable. Which  means, suppose I created two workflows.  One with R1, R2, and R3, and then I  created another workflow by combining  R4 and R5. So now, by nature, this  workflow is also a Runnable. This  workflow is also a runnable. Which  means you can connect these two  together as well. And this is the best  part about this entire concept: you can  form structures of any size by  connecting things in this way. If you  want to understand runnables through an  analogy, to understand them visually,  the best way is to imagine Lego blocks.  Lego blocks also follow these four  principles exactly. Let me tell you  quickly. The first principle, just like  runnables. Lego blocks are also a unit  of work. Okay? So, in a Lego kit, you  will see different types of blocks.  Like this single one, this wedge one,  this U-shaped one. This is the L-shaped  one. Every block has its own purpose.  Just like a runnable. Okay? It will  execute a task for you. Point number  two: just as every runnable follows a  common interface. Similarly, Lego  blocks, even if their structure is  different. They follow the same  interface. You will notice that these  connecting structures are built on top  of all Lego blocks, and you will find  this in every Lego block. And what is  point number three: the way you can  connect runnables to each other,  similarly, you can connect Lego blocks  to each other as well. You can connect  these two together. You can connect  these two together. Right? And point  four is also true: that when you  connect Lego blocks. Suppose you  connected these two Lego blocks to make  a structure, and then you connected  these two Lego blocks to make a  structure. Then this resultant  structure is itself a Lego block. And  this is itself a Lego block. Because  these interfaces are available in them  as well. It means that you can then  connect these two together to make a  slightly more complex structure. So  basically, just imagine Lego blocks.  Exactly the same thing happens with  runnables in the LangChain universe.  Okay? Now, I know maybe you might not  be getting the full feel of runnables  yet. So the best part is that we will  now move from "what" to "how". And I  will show you how to code runnables  from absolute scratch. Okay? And when  you write that code with your own hands , that is when you will truly feel what  runnables are. So guys, my plan is to  show you all the scenarios I've  explained in this video through actual  code. So, we will start from the very  beginning. And first of all, I will  show you how to create two classes. One  for LLM and another one for Prompt  Template. And with the help of those  classes, we will try to build a small  LLM application. Okay? So I will code  and keep explaining as I go. You will  automatically start understanding what  I am doing. Okay? So first of all, what  I want is to create an LLM component in  LangChain. Which AI engineers will use  in the future to interact with any LLM.  Okay? So obviously, the LLM component I  build right now won't be a real-world  component. It will be a dummy component . Okay? So what I will do is I will  first of all create a class. I will  call it, let's say, FakeLLM. And inside  this LLM class, for now, I am adding  two methods. One is obviously the  constructor, and inside the constructor , I've just written code to print "LLM  Created" as soon as someone calls it.  Okay? After that, I am creating a  second method named predict. Because  the LLM component has a predict method.  We saw this a little while ago. And  this predict method will receive a  prompt to do its job. And as soon as it  receives this prompt, our LLM will  generate a response based on that  prompt. Now here, obviously, we are not  using a real LLM. So I will create a  dummy response. What I will do is  create a list which I will call  response_list. I will add two or three  responses to it beforehand, and every  time the predict function is called,  one response will be randomly selected  and printed. For example, let's say the  first response is "Delhi is the capital  of""India", that's one response. The  second will be "IPL is a""cricket  league", and the third will be "AI  stands for Artificial Intelligence."  Okay? And what I will do is import a  random module here. And here in the  return, I will do this. Response is  random.choice. And here I am passing  the response_list. This is my simple  LLM class. Okay? This is a dummy class.  A real LLM class will not look like  this. Now, if I create an object of  this. Let's say like this, FakeLLM. So,  the LLM is created. Now, if I do  llm.predict and here, let's say I say " What is the capital of" India. Then a  response comes back. IPL is a cricket  league. And obviously, we cannot expect  anything logical. We are randomly  generating one of these three. Like, if  I run it again, it will be something  else. Like, "Delhi is the capital of  India" got selected. Doing it again  will produce something else. Okay? You  get the idea. I have created a dummy  LLM class that behaves exactly how an  actual LLM class might behave. Okay? So , this is our first component. Now,  let's build our second component, which  is our Prompt Template. So, I am  creating another class and calling it  Dummy Prompt Template. It also has a  constructor, and this time we are  providing some inputs to the  constructor. The first input we are  giving is template. The second input we  are giving is called input variables.  And we are writing self.template equals  template and self.input variables  equals input variables. Okay? This is  my constructor. After that, since this  is a prompt template class, it will  have a format function. And the format  function will receive a dictionary as  input. And this function will return  self.template.format. And what will we  do here? We will unpack that input  dictionary. Like this. And this is our  Dummy Prompt Template. Let's try this  out once as well. Suppose I am creating  a template. And this is an object of  the Dummy Prompt Template class. I am  giving it a template. "Write a poem  about {topic}" Input variables are  topic. Okay? So first of all, this  object is created. Now, if I do  template dot, I get the option for the  format function. Here, if I send a  dictionary where topic is India. Then  look, "Write a poem about India" is  coming up. Okay? Now, suppose we add  one more variable. "Write a""{length}  poem about {topic}" and In length, you  can put things like short, long, etc.  So now what I will do is I will put  short in length and run it, and you can  see "Write a short poem about India".  Okay? So you can see again, we created  a second template. Created a second  class that behaves exactly the way your  Prompt Template class behaves. Okay? So  now, understand that I am an AI  engineer and I have been given two  components by LangChain. One is this  LLM component, and the other is this a  Prompt Template component. Now, with  the help of these two classes, I have  to build a small LLM application. Where  I will ask the user for a topic and  provide a poem printed on that topic.  Obviously, an actual poem won't be  printed. But you get the idea. So, look  at what you have to do. You first have  to create a template in this way. From  this template, you have to create a  prompt. Just like I did just now. Okay?  After that, you need an LLM. So, to  create an LLM, you will call the mock  LLM class and now in llm.predict you  will pass your prompt—prompt is not  defined, let's run the prompt once.  Let's run this one too, and run this  one as well. And you can see now you  are getting your response. You can  assume this to be a poem. So, we have  covered the very initial step we  discussed, where we have some  components and our AI engineers are  working hard, writing code, and  manually connecting those components to  build their AI application. Okay? Now,  what we will do is step into the shoes  of the LangChain team and create an LLM  Chain class that will kind of chain  these two components together. Let's  build a mock LLM Chain whose job will  be to connect the prompt template and  the LLM components, making it a bit  easier for our AI engineers to work.  Okay? So, I am creating one more class  by the name of Mock LLM Chain. Inside  this, there will also be two methods.  One will be our constructor. This  constructor will receive two things to  do its job. One will be the prompt and  one will be the LLM. Inside this, we  are storing the LLM in the self.llm  variable and saving the prompt in the  self.prompt variable. And since this is  a chain, it will have a run method in  which you will receive an input; let's  call it input data. This will actually  be a dictionary that we give to the  prompt template. And what will we do  internally here? First, we will form  the prompt from the prompt template we  have. So we will write  self.prompt.format because the prompt  we are getting above is a prompt  template object. Here, we will pass the  input dictionary. So what will happen  because of this? Automatically, this  code here will be triggered. Okay? And  then in return, we will get our final  prompt, which we need to send to the  LLM. Here, we will write `  self.llm.predict` and pass the final  prompt there, storing the resulting  output in a variable. We know that the  result we get back from the LLM comes  in the form of a dictionary. So, we  will just extract the string from it.  We will write ` return result [' response'] `. And this, guys, is our  mock LLM chain class. Now, let's use  this to build the same application. So  first, you need a prompt template. So  we have copied that. You need an LLM.  We created that using the mock LLM  class. And now, what will we do? We  will create a chain object using the  mock LLM chain. Alright? Here we will  pass our LLM, and in the prompt, we  will pass our prompt template. Now what  will we do? We will call ` chain.run`  and define in a dictionary that the  length will be short and the topic will  be India. And as soon as we run this,  look, here is our output. Now I don't  have to format the prompt template  separately or call predict on the LLM.  Both those tasks are being handled  automatically in this single function  call. Alright? So we just coded that  perspective where the LangChain team  thought they could create many chain  functions to make AI engineers 'work  easier. But at this point, they  realized that this is not the right  approach. Because these chain classes  you are creating are not flexible. Look  at this, for instance, what if I wanted  to create a two-step chain? Suppose  first I wanted to generate a joke, and  then generate an explanation for that  same joke. In two steps, I would  basically need to make two calls to the  LLMs. So, with the help of this chain,  I cannot make two calls to the LLM.  Just think for yourself, what code  would you write inside ` run` to make  your code flexible enough to handle any  number of calls to the LLM? If you  think about it, you will realize that  doing so is quite difficult. And that  is why this mock LLM chain is not  flexible for creating any kind of  workflows. Alright? The main problem  stems from the fact that the way to  interact with your prompt template  class is ` format`, and the way to  interact with your LLM class is `  predict`. We need to standardize these  two classes in some way, and only then  will we be able to build flexible  chains. All right? So far, I have shown  you the entire problem through code,  which I explained to you theoretically  at the beginning of the video. Now, I  will show you the entire solution  through code, how we will build  standardized components using Runnables , and then how you will be able to  chain those standardized components  together, which we will see next. So  guys, to build standardized components,  you need the components anyway. So, I  am doing one thing. First of all, I  will keep the two classes we created  here. Because we need the components.  How to standardize them, we will see in  a little while. So, I have copy-pasted  both these classes here. Let's discuss  how we can standardize these two  classes. So, according to our  discussion, what should happen is,  first of all, we need to convert these  two classes or components into  Runnables, and second, all Runnables  must have common methods. And among  them, the most important method is  invoke. All right? So, how can we make  sure that all our components have the  same methods inside them? There is a  very solid way to ensure this in  Object-Oriented Programming, which we  call Abstraction. So, what I will do is , I will create an abstract class named  Runnable. And then, all my other  component classes will inherit from  that Runnable class. So, automatically,  all my component classes will become  Runnable. And the abstract methods in  my Runnable, I will be forced to  implement in my component classes. And  in this way, I can ensure that everyone  has a common structure. All right? Look  at what I am explaining. Let's  understand this by coding it. First of  all, what I will do is, I will import  ABC (Abstract Base Classes) and  abstractmethod from abc. I am sure you  have studied OOP well. Otherwise, you  might not understand this. Now look at  what I am doing. I am creating a class  named Runnable. And this is an abstract  class. Because it is inheriting from  ABC. All right? And inside this class,  what did I do? I created a method named  invoke. All right? And this invoke is  receiving some input. But this method  does not do anything. This is an  abstract method. Meaning, there is no  code written inside it. And we will  label this separately by adding the  abstract method decorator to indicate  that it is an abstract method. Okay?  Now look at this interesting thing. I  have my runnable class now. Now my fake  LLM class will inherit from this  runnable class. So now what will happen  is that the fake LLM class has also  become runnable in a way. Okay? Now  look at the interesting part: when I  run this code and try to create an LLM  object like this. Then an error will be  thrown. Why is an error being thrown?  Because here it is telling you that it  cannot instantiate abstract class fake  LLM with abstract method invoke. This  means that you have inherited the  runnable abstract class but you haven't  implemented its abstract methods in  your class. So what will you have to do ? You have to create the invoke method  here, regardless. Which will receive  some input. Suppose it receives a  prompt, and the job of this invoke  method is to do exactly what predict  does. So basically, what I can do is I  can copy this entire code and paste it  here. So in a way, the work that  predict was doing earlier, invoke is  doing now. Okay? So should we remove  predict? The answer is not exactly. You  should not remove predict immediately.  Because it's possible that older AI  engineers are still using predict in  their code. So if you remove predict  directly, their code will start  breaking. Right? So ideally, what  should you do here? You should print a  message that this method is going to be  deprecated. Don't use it. Put a message  like this so that as soon as someone  calls this method, they get the correct  output but also a warning message that  this method will be removed in the  future and you should call invoke  instead. I hope you understand what I  have done. I created a runnable  abstract class and made the fake LLM  its child. Now, since it's its child,  we have implemented its invoke method  here. So in a way, I have forced this  LLM component of mine to follow this  structure, and I will do the same thing  with the prompt template class as well.  So I will write here that this is also  a child of the runnable class, and  since it is a child of the runnable  class, it should also have invoke  inside it, and invoke is receiving an  input dictionary here, and what is it  doing? It is doing exactly what is  written in the format. And here too,  you can attach a warning with the  format that this will be removed in the  future. Use invoke instead. So, what I  have done now is standardized both my  components. Okay? I made both of them  runnable and ensured that the way to  interact is the invoke method. Okay?  Now, the benefit of this is that by  connecting these two, you can easily  create a chain of any length. Let me  show you how. So now that we have  standardized our components. Now we  will compose them into chains. Okay? We  will connect them and form chains. Now,  to do this, we need to create another  class. And the sole purpose of that  class will be that with its help, you  can chain two or more components  together. Okay? So, I am creating a new  class named RunnableConnector. Okay?  And this will also be a child of the  Runnable class. Okay? Now, we need to  write two methods inside this class as  well. The first one will be a  constructor. The constructor of this  particular class will receive a list of  runnables as input. Meaning it will  receive a list of components. Okay?  There can be any number of components  in that list. Okay? And I am storing it  in a variable. self.runnable_list =  runnable_list. Okay? After that, since  this is also a runnable, there will be  an invoke function here too. It will  receive some input data. And here is  the main code. So, what will we do? We  will loop over all the runnables we  have in this runnable list. So, I would  write for runnable in runnable_list,  and what I will do is, here it will be  self.runnable_list. And what I will do  is, I will call the invoke function of  every runnable here. And inside, I will  pass whatever input data I am receiving . Okay? So, try to understand once what  is happening here. Suppose while  creating an object of this class, let's  say I am creating an object named chain , and chain is an object of the  RunnableConnector class, and while  creating it, I sent two things here.  One, my prompt template object, and  second, I sent my LLM object. Okay? So,  what will happen is that this list  contains two runnables. One is the  prompt which is a runnable, and the LLM  which is again a runnable, and this  list will be stored here. All right?  Now what am I doing? I am running a  loop over this list. When the loop runs  for the first time, we are extracting  the first runnable. That is the prompt,  and we are calling the invoke function  of the prompt and providing input data  here. So what will happen is that the  prompt will do its job and generate the  final prompt. All right? So whatever  output comes, I store it in a variable.  Let's call it input data. Whatever  output came from this step's output, I  stored it back into input data itself.  Now what will happen? The loop will run  next time, and who is the next runnable ? The LLM. So now I am calling LLM dot  invoke. But what is LLM dot invoke  receiving in input data? The output of  the previous step. So I hope you  understand how smartly we are forming a  chain. We are putting the output of the  previous step into the input of the  next step. All right? And as soon as  this loop ends, I will return the  output of the final step, the input  data. And guys, this is the class. Now  see how smartly I will do this whole  thing. First, I created a prompt. This  is the raw prompt, okay? After that, I  created an LLM. LLM is equal to dummy  LLM. Okay? I probably didn't run this  code. Let's run all these codes. All  right? The LLM is also created. Now  what am I doing? I am creating an  object of the runnable connector. And  here, in place of the prompt, I am  sending. The template I created above  and my LLM. All right? Now what I will  do is I will write chain dot invoke,  and here I will pass the dictionary  where the length will be long and the  topic will be India. And as soon as I  run this, look. We are able to chain  both of them, and I can see the output  of our final runnable. Now the fun part  is that in this same code, you can  chain together any number of components . For instance, suppose I create  another component here called string  output parser. Whose job would be to  extract the string from this output and  provide it. So what I will do is I will  come here and create another component  here, which will be named dummy str  output parser. All right? And this is  also a type of runnable. There will be  nothing in its constructor. And it will  also have an invoke method that will  receive some input data. And its simple  job is to extract the response key from  that input data. So basically, you are  getting this dictionary as input and  you need to extract this specific  string. Alright? So this is my fake  string output parser. Now see what I am  doing. I am creating another object  here called parser, which is an object  of the fake string output parser. And  now I am passing the parser after the  template and LLM here. The chain is  created. Invoked the chain. And look,  instead of getting the entire  dictionary, only the string is coming  now. Because what happened first? In  step one, the prompt was formed. That  prompt went into the LLM. The LLM made  a prediction in the form of a  dictionary. The parser extracted the  string from inside that dictionary and  gave it to you. I hope you are  understanding. In this way, you can  create a chain as long as you want. You  won't need to create custom functions.  Now I am going to show you something  very interesting. What have we done so  far? Connected two or more runnables  together to form chains. What am I  going to do now? Now I will connect two  chains together to make a bigger chain.  So basically, we are going to look at  this fourth principle. I told you that  when you connect runnables, chains are  formed, and you can create multiple  chains if you want. And since all these  chains are themselves runnables, you  can then connect those chains together  as well. Just like these Lego blocks.  So we are going to do a simple  application. Where the job of chain one  will be to generate a joke. We will  provide a topic with the help of a  prompt template. We will send that  topic to the LLM and the LLM will  generate a joke. So the output of this  chain is a joke. Then we will create a  second chain. This second chain will  receive a joke as input, and this chain  will create an explanation of that joke  for us. Alright? So there will be a  second prompt here in which we will  feed this joke. We will send that  prompt to the LLM and tell it to  explain the joke, and that LLM will  give us the explanation. And then what  will we do? We will join both these  chains together to make a big chain. I  hope you are getting the idea of how  this whole thing is going to work. It  is very easy. We don't need to do  anything new. We have already written  all the code. What do we just need to  do? Create two prompt templates. So our  first template will be a fake prompt  template inside which the template will  be "Write a joke about topic". And " topic" will go into input variables.  This is my first prompt template, and  there will be my second prompt template . A fake prompt template where the  template value will be "Write a summary  about the following joke," or rather,  we can simply write "Explain the  following joke," and here we will put " response," and "response" will go into  the input variables; this is my second  template. Besides this, I need an LLM.  So, that will be created using a fake  LLM class. Apart from this, I need a  parser that will print the final result  for me. So, for that, I am using a fake  string output parser. Now look, I will  create two chains. Chain number one,  whose job will be to print a joke. So,  chain one will be a runnable connector,  and here I will pass template one and  then the LLM. Right? So if you do chain  one dot run and send the topic here... oh, I am sorry, it won't run! The whole  reason we put in this effort is so that  "invoke" comes here. My bad. So you can  see our joke is being generated.  Obviously, this is not a joke. This is  just a dummy model we have created. But  you get the idea that in reality, a  joke will come, and its key name will  be "response." Now, similarly, what  will we do? A We will create chain two,  which will again be made with the help  of a runnable connector, and we will  pass three things into it. We will pass  template two, the LLM again, and the  parser. Right? Now, if you invoke this  chain two and provide a joke here. " This is a joke," so what will this  chain do? It will print an explanation  of the joke for you. But obviously, we  don't have to invoke these two chains  manually. So what I will do is, I will  remove this. I will remove this too.  And now what will I do? With the help  of the two chains I have created, I  will create a final chain, which will  again be made with the help of a  runnable connector. And here I will  send chain one, and after that, I will  send chain two. And now I will call the  invoke function on the final chain. And  here I will send the topic of the joke  into "topic." Let's say, cricket. And  now, as soon as I run this. Look, I can  see only a string. Consider this as if  you are looking at the explanation of  your final joke. Right now, these LLMs  are not actually working. Because we  created a dummy LLM class. But you get  the idea of how powerful an idea we  just coded from scratch. We first  created the components. We standardized  those components with the help of the  Runnable interface, and then with its  help—I mean, with the help of the  Runnable interface—we are now able to  form chains of any length; in fact, not  just chains of any length, we are even  able to chain multiple chains together.  So, this is the idea we were discussing  throughout this entire video. So, I  hope I was able to convey it, first of  all. The video has become quite long,  probably an hour. But I first took you  through the entire journey  theoretically of what might have  happened with the LangChain team, what  they might have thought, what changes  they might have made, and then I showed  you how to write all that code from  scratch. Honestly, there were some  other things to cover in this video,  but I think the video is already long,  so there will be a second part to this  video where I will show you the actual  Runnable classes. For now, what I can  do is show you an interesting thing: if  you really open and look at the  LangChain code, you will see that it  works exactly like this. Let me show it  to you. So, if I go into the code and  assume this is our ChatOpenAI class  that we have been using the whole time.  So, take this ChatOpenAI as our LLM  class. Like this fake LLM class of ours . It was actually trying to copy this  ChatOpenAI. Now, if you go into its  code, you will see that ChatOpenAI  inherits from BaseChatOpenAI.  BaseChatOpenAI inherits from  BaseChatModel. BaseChatModel inherits  from BaseLanguageModel. Now look,  BaseLanguageModel inherits from  RunnableSerializable. And  RunnableSerializable inherits from  Runnable. And this is our final  Runnable class, which is our abstract  class that we created here. Okay? Now,  if you go down in it, you will see that  somewhere there will be an invoke  method, which will be an abstract  method. So, there are a lot of things  here. But if you keep scrolling down,  you should see an invoke method. It's  not visible yet. Ah, look, here is the  invoke method, which is an abstract  method, just like ours. All right?  There is no code written inside this.  This is an abstract method. All right?  Now, whoever inherits the Runnable  class will have to implement this  invoke method in their own class, just  like we had to do everywhere. All right ? So, what happened is that what I  showed you in a simplified way,  LangChain has done the same in a  complex codebase, but the whole story  is the same as what I explained in this  video. So, I really hope...I'm not  really sure, I shot this video bit by  bit over the last 24 hours. I don't  have a clear idea right now of how the  video has turned out. I can only hope  that I was able to explain it to you at  the deeper level I intended, and you  now have a very solid fundamental base  created regarding this library. We will  explore Runnables a bit more in the  next video. All right? And if you liked  the video, please like it. If you  haven't subscribed to the channel,  please do subscribe. See you in the  next video. Bye.